---
title: db2 工具使用总结
date: 2017-05-13 09:45:30
tags: [db2]
categories: 技术
---

常用工具包括：db2top db2pd, db2load db2import
以下详细说明每个工具使用总结

<!-- more -->

## 性能工具


## 备份/恢复

### import
包含自增列的数据导入
1. 数据中不包含自增列
``` sql
db2 import from import.del of del modified by identitymissing
      replace into table1
```
2. 数据中包含自增列
``` sql
db2 import from import.del of del modified by identityignore
      replace into table1
```


### load
load 后导致表空间状态为BackupPending， 以下为解释。

    Normal
    The Normal state is the initial state of a table space after it is created, indicating that no (abnormal) states currently affect it.
    Load in Progress
    The Load in Progress state indicates that there is a load in progress on the table space. This state prevents the backup of dependent tables during the load. The table space state is distinct from the Load in Progress table state (which is used in all load operations) because the load utility places table spaces in the Load in Progress state only when you specify the COPY
    NO parameter for a recoverable database. The table spaces remain in this state for the duration of the load operation.
    * Backup Pending *
    If you perform a load operation for a recoverable database and specify the COPY NO parameter, table spaces are placed in the Backup Pending table space state after the first commit. You cannot update a table space in the Backup Pending state. You can remove the table space from the Backup Pending state only by backing up the table space. Even if you cancel the load operation, the table space remains in the Backup Pending state because the table space state is changed at the beginning of the load operation and cannot be rolled back.
    * Restore Pending *
    If you perform a successful load operation with the COPY NO option, restore the database, and then rollforward through that operation, the associated table spaces are placed in the Restore Pending state. To remove the table spaces from the Restore Pending state, you must perform a restore operation.

解决方法： norecoverable or copy yes
```sql
--db2 load from staff.del of del insert into staff nonrecoverable 
db2 load from staff.del of del insert into staff copy yes to . --推荐使用yes
```

```sql
db2set DB2_LOAD_COPY_NO_OVERRIDE="COPY YES TO E:\TEST" 
--db2set DB2_LOAD_COPY_NO_OVERRIDE=NONRECOVERABLE 
db2 terminate
db2set  --显示配置结果

db2 load from staff.del of del insert into staff 
```

load的 copy参数相关说明如下：

    COPY NO
    Specifies that the table space in which the table resides will be placed in backup pending state if forward recovery is enabled (that is, if either logarchmeth1 or logarchmeth2 is set to a value other than OFF). The COPY
    NO option will also put the table space state into the Load in Progress table space state. This is a transient state that will disappear when the load completes or aborts. The data in any table in the table space cannot be updated or deleted until a table space backup or a full database backup is made. However, it is possible to access the data in any table by using the SELECT statement.
    LOAD with COPY
    NO on a recoverable database leaves the table spaces in a backup pending state. For example, performing a LOAD with COPY
    NO and INDEXING MODE DEFERRED will leave indexes needing a refresh. Certain queries on the table might require an index scan and will not succeed until the indexes are refreshed. The index cannot be refreshed if it resides in a table space which is in the backup pending state. In that case, access to the table will not be allowed until a backup is taken. Index refresh is done automatically by the database when the index is accessed by a query. If one of COPY NO, COPY YES, or NONRECOVERABLE is not specified, and the database is recoverable (logarchmeth1 or logarchmeth2 is set to value other than OFF), then COPY
    NO is the default.
    COPY YES
    Saves a copy of the loaded data. This parameter is invalid if forward recovery is disabled.
    USE TSM
    Specifies that the copy will be stored using IBM® Tivoli® Storage Manager.
    OPEN num-sess SESSIONS
    The number of I/O sessions to be used with TSM or the vendor product. The default value is 1.
    TO device/directory
    Specifies the device or directory on which the copy image will be created.
    LOAD lib-name
    The name of the shared library (DLL on Windows operating systems) containing the vendor backup and restore I/O functions to be used. It can contain the full path. If the full path is not given, it will default to the path where the user exit programs reside.
    NONRECOVERABLE
    Specifies that the load transaction is to be marked as unrecoverable and that it will not be possible to recover it by a subsequent roll forward action. The roll forward utility will skip the transaction and will mark the table into which data was being loaded as "invalid". The utility will also ignore any subsequent transactions against that table. After the roll forward operation is completed, such a table can only be dropped or restored from a backup (full or table space) taken after a commit point following the completion of the nonrecoverable load operation.
    With this option, table spaces are not put in backup pending state following the load operation, and a copy of the loaded data does not have to be made during the load operation. If one of COPY NO, COPY
    YES, or NONRECOVERABLE is not specified, and the database is not recoverable (logarchmeth1 and logarchmeth2 are both set to OFF), then NONRECOVERABLE is the default.

## db2look

1. 导出表结构
db2look -d db_name -e  -o output

2. 导出数据表，权限，表空间和缓冲，
db2look -d db_name -e -a -l -x -o output






